= DESCRIPTION:

Installs passenger for Rails / Rack / Merb hosting.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 8.10. May work on other platforms, esp Ubuntu/Debian. May need work to function on CentOS/Fedora/RHEL.

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks, http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master:

* ruby
* apache2 (web_app)
* rails

= ATTRIBUTES: 

* passenger[:version] - Specify the version of passenger to install.
* passenger[:root_path] - The location of the passenger gem.
* passenger[:module_path] - The location of the compiled passenger apache module.
* passenger[:apache_load_path] - File to use for loading the passenger apache module.
* passenger[:apache_conf_path] - Additional passenger module configuration.

The last two are activated with apache_module.

= USAGE:

For example, to run a Rails application on passenger:

  include_recipe "rails"
  include_recipe "passenger"
  
  web_app "myproj" do
    docroot "/srv/myproj/public"
    server_name "myproj.#{node[:domain]}"
    server_aliases [ "myproj", node[:hostname] ]
    rails_env "production"
  end

Use the passenger_web_app.conf.erb template as an example to get started with your own vhost template for your application.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Author:: Joshua Sierles (<joshua@37signals.com>)
Author:: Michael Hale (<mikehale@gmail.com>)

Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc
Copyright:: 2009, 37signals
Coprighty:: 2009, Michael Hale

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
