= DESCRIPTION:

Installs RadiantCMS, a Ruby on Rails content management system.

= CHANGELOG:

Changes to note in this version (from COOK-117).

* added gem install capabilities
* default to gem install
* removed dependency on ezmobius/chef-deploy (use deploy provider instead)
* fixed tiny error in attributes.
* updated attribute syntax

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 9.04, uses the Opscode Apache2 cookbook which is Ubuntu/Debian specific.

Requires Chef 0.7.12 for Deploy resource when installing from Radiant's git repo.

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks (http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master)

* git
* sqlite
* rails
* apache2

= ATTRIBUTES:

* radiant[:edge] - Do a deploy from github repo if true, use gems if false, default false.
* radiant[:branch] - Branch to deploy from, default HEAD.
* radiant[:migrate] - Whether to do a database migration, default false.
* radiant[:migrate_command] - Command to do a database migration, default 'rake db:migrate'.
* radiant[:environment] - Rails environment to use, default is production.
* radiant[:revision] - Revision to deploy, default HEAD.
* radiant[:action] - Whether to deploy, rollback or nothing, default nothing.

= USAGE:

This recipe uses SQLite3 for the database by default. To set up the default database to get Radiant rolling, run a db:bootstrap by changing the radiant[:migrate] command to the following in the webui:

  yes | rake production db:bootstrap \
    ADMIN_NAME=Administrator \
    ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
    ADMIN_PASSWORD=radiant \
    DATABASE_TEMPLATE=empty.yml

Change as required for your environment. If the target system doesn't have /usr/bin/yes, use echo 'yes' instead.

Radiant supports other database backends. We don't yet have automation ready to set up a database user and grant privileges, or creating the database itself.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:


Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.


