= DESCRIPTION:

Installs god gem, sets up modular configuration directory and provides a define to monitor processes.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform and Application Environment:

Tested on Ubuntu 8.10. May work on other platforms, esp Ubuntu/Debian. Sample configuration file uses mongrel_runit for managing mongrels via runit. 

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks, http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master:

* ruby
* runit

Opscode does not yet have a mongrel_runit cookbook.

= ATTRIBUTES: 

No attributes are used.

= USAGE:

This recipe is designed to be used through the god_monitor define. Create a god configuration file in your application's cookbook and then call god_monitor:

  god_monitor "myproj" do
    config "myproj.god.erb"
  end

A sample mongrel.god.erb is provided, though it assumes mongrel_runit is used. This can be used as a baseline for customization.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:
      
Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
