= DESCRIPTION:

Manages Yum Repository files in /etc/yum.repos.d on CentOS / RHEL 5.x.

Yum repositories included in this recipe:
EPEL, ELFF, Dell OMSA, Dell Community, Dell Firmware, VMware Tools

= REQUIREMENTS:

This cookbook requires RHEL or CentOS 5.x.  It has not been tested on
other platforms.  It probably will not work with RHEL 4 or CentOS 4,
especially if you have not taken the steps to install yum on that
platform.

The yumrepo::dell recipe requires Dell manufactured hardware.  This
recipe should automatically disable itself by default if non-Dell
hardware is detected by Ohai

The yumrepo::vmware-tools recipe requires a VMWare Virtual Machine.
This recipe should automatically disable itself by default if
non-VMWare hardware is detected by Ohai.

Recipes tested with Ohai >= 0.5.6

= USAGE:

* yumrepo::default

 - includes epel, elff, dell, and vmware-tools recipes

* yumrepo::epel

 - Provides RPM keys and repo file for
   Fedora EPEL (Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux)
 * See http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL for more info

* yumrepo::elff

 - Provides RPM keys and repo file for
   ELFF (Enterprise Linux Fast Forward)
 * See http://elff.bravenet.com for more info

* yumrepo::dell

 - Provides repo files for the following Dell repositories.
   - hardware / Open Manage Server Administrator
   - community / formerly the software repository
   - firmware / Convenient but unsupported by Dell
   * See http://linux.dell.com for more info

* yumrepo::vmware-tools

 - Uninstalls VMwareTools rpm installed from the
   VMware ESX "Install/Upgrade VMware Tools" menu
 - Uninstalls manually installed vmware-tools
   packages, the recipe needs to first run
   vmware-uninstall-tools.pl to use the RPM packages
   from the repo.
 - Provides RPM keys and repo file for
   VMware Tools for the ESX 4.1 release
 * See http://packages.vmware.com for more info

= ATTRIBUTES:

Notable overridable attributes are as follows.

* yumrepo::epel

 - repo[:epel][:enabled] = true||false
   * disables/enables repository in default recipe

* yumrepo::elff

 - repo[:elff][:enabled] = true||false
   * disables/enables repository in default recipe

* yumrepo::dell

 - repo[:dell][:install_optional] = true||false
   * disables/enables community/firmware repositories in dell recipe
   * OMSA (hardware) repository will detect Dell hardware platform and
     enable itself, dynamically. It is not affected by this attribute.

* yumrepo::vmware

 - repo[:vmware][:release] (ESX version number, default 4.1)
   * This is used to determine the correct URL in the
     VMware RHEL5/CentOS repository.

 - repo[:vmware][:install_optional] = true||false
   * Whether or not VMware's optional mouse, and X11
     drivers should be installed in the vmware-tools recipe.


= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Eric G. Wolfe
Copyright:: 2010

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

