== DESCRIPTION:

Configures a server to be an OpenLDAP master, OpenLDAP replication slave, or OpenLDAP client.

== REQUIREMENTS:

=== Platform:

Ubuntu is best supported. Debian may work. CentOS and Red Hat are not fully supported, but we take patches.

=== Recipes:

* openssh 
* nscd

== ATTRIBUTES:

Be aware of the attributes used by this cookbook and adjust the defaults for your environment where required, in attributes/openldap.rb.

=== Auth & Client node attributes

* openldap[:server] 
* openldap[:auth_binddn]
* openldap[:auth_bindpw]
* openldap[:auth_url] 

=== Server node attributes

* openldap[:slapd_type] = master | slave
* openldap[:slapd_rid] = unique integer ID, required if type is slave.
* openldap[:slapd_master] = hostname of slapd master, attempts to search for slapd_type master.

== USAGE:

Edit Rakefile variables for SSL certificate.

On client systems, 

  include_recipe "openldap::auth"
  
This will get the required packages and configuration for client systems 

On server systems, set the server node attributes in the Chef node, or in a JSON attributes file. Include the openldap::server recipe:

  include_recipe "openldap::server"

== LICENSE:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
