= DESCRIPTION:

Installs and configures the Cloudkick Agent, and integrates it with Chef.

= REQUIREMENTS:

You must be running a platform supported by the Cloudkick Agent - at this time, that means Ubuntu, CentOS or Red Hat.

= USAGE:

In order for the agent to function, you'll need to have defined your Cloudkick API key and secret.  We recommend you do this in a Role, which should also take care of applying the cloudkick::default recipe.

Assuming you name the role 'cloudkick', here is the required json:

  {
    "name": "cloudkick",
    "chef_type": "role",
    "json_class": "Chef::Role",
    "default_attributes": {

    },
    "description": "Configures Cloudkick",
    "run_list": [
      "recipe[cloudkick]"
    ],
    "override_attributes": {
      "cloudkick": {
        "oauth_key": "YOUR KEY HERE"
        "oauth_secret": "YOUR SECRET HERE"
      }
    }
  }

If you want Cloudkick installed everywhere, we recommend you just add the cloudkick attributes to a base role.

All of the data about the node from Cloudkick is available in node[:cloudkick] - for example: 

  "cloudkick": {
    "oauth_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
    "oauth_secret": "YOUR SECRET HERE",
    "data": {
      "name": "slice204393",
      "status": "running",
      "ipaddress": "173.203.83.199",
      "provider_id": "padc2665",
      "tags": [
        "agent",
        "cloudkick"
      ],
      "agent_state": "connected",
      "id": "n87cfc79c5",
      "provider_name": "Rackspace",
      "color": "#fffffff"
    }
  }

Of particular interest is the inclusion of the Cloudkick tags.  This will allow you to search Chef via tags placed on nodes within Cloudkick:

  $ knife search node 'cloudkick_data_tags:agent' -a fqdn
  {
    "rows": [
      {
        "fqdn": "slice204393",
        "id": "slice204393"
      }
    ],
    "start": 0,
    "total": 1
  }
  
We automatically add a tag for each Role applied to your node.  For example, if your node had a run list of:

  "run_list": [ "role[webserver]", "role[database_master]" ]

The node will automatically have the 'webserver' and 'database_master' tags within Cloudkick.

