= DESCRIPTION:

Installs and configures Nagios for a server and for clients using Chef 0.8 search capabilities.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Requires Chef 0.8+ for search capability of roles and data bags.

A data bag named 'users' should exist, and users should have a groups value of "sysadmins" so the server recipe can search for who sysadmins are to notify. If this is not desired, remove the sysadmins search and other usage from the nagios::server recipe, and the contacts template.

The monitoring server that uses this recipe should have a role named 'monitoring'. The client recipe will use this to allow the monitoring server to connect via NRPE. A role named after the environment (e.g., "production") and a node attribute app_environment with a value of the same should be created for all nodes. The server uses this to search for only nodes that belong to its same environment.

Because of the heavy use of search, this recipe will not work with Chef Solo, as it cannot do any searches without a server.

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 9.04, Ubuntu 9.10 and Debian 5.

== Cookbooks:

* apache2

= ATTRIBUTES:

Attributes under the 'nagios' namespace.

== Client:

The following attributes are used for the client NRPE checks for warning and critical levels.

checks.memory.critical
checks.memory.warning
checks.load.critical
checks.load.warning
checks.smtp_host - default relayhost to check for connectivity.

== Server:

dir - base server configuration directory.
log_dir - where the server logs.
cache_dir
docroot
config_subdir - for dropping in configurations as needed.
notifications_enabled - set to 1 to enable notification.
check_external_commands
default_contact_groups
sysadmin_email - default notification email.
sysadmin_sms_email - default notification sms.
templates
interval_length - minimum interval.
default_host.check_interval
default_host.retry_interval
default_host.max_check_attempts
default_host.notification_interval
default_service.check_interval
default_service.retry_interval
default_service.max_check_attempts
default_service.notification_interval

= USAGE:

For a Nagios server, create a role named 'monitoring', and add the following recipe to the run_list:

    recipe[nagios::server]

This will allow client nodes to search for the server by this role and add its IP address to the allowed list for NRPE.

To install Nagios and NRPE on a client node:

    include_recipe "nagios::client"

This is a fairly complicated cookbook. We'll describe the components in detail.

== Definitions:

nagios_conf:: This definition is used to drop in a configuration file in the base Nagios configuration directory's conf.d. This can be used for customized configurations for various services.

== Libraries:

default:: The library included with the cookbook provides some helper methods used in templates.

* nagios_boolean
* nagios_interval - calculates interval based on interval length and a given number of seconds.
* nagios_attr - retrieves a nagios attribute from the node.

== Recipes:

=== Client

The client recipe searches for allowed servers via a role named 'monitoring'. The recipe will also install the required packages and start the NRPE service. A custom plugin for checking memory is also added.

Client commands for NRPE can be modified by editing the nrpe.cfg.erb template.

=== Server

The server recipe sets up Apache as the web front end. The nagios::client recipe is also included. This recipe also does a number of searches to dynamically build the hostgroups to monitor, hosts that belong to them and admins to notify of events/alerts.

The recipe does the following:

1. Searches for members of the sysadmins group by searching through 'users' data bag and adds them to a list for notification/contacts.
2. Search all nodes for a role matching the app_environment.
3. Search all available roles and build a list which will be the Nagios hostgroups.
4. Search for all nodes of each role and add the hostnames to the hostgroups.
5. Installs various packages required for the server.
6. Sets up some configuration directories.
7. Moves the package-installed Nagios configuration to a 'dist' directory.
8. Disables the 000-default site (present on Debian/Ubuntu Apache2 package installations).
9. Enables the Nagios web front end configuration.
10. Sets up the configuration templates for services, contacts, hostgroups and hosts.

*NOTE*: You will probably need to change the services.cfg.erb template for your environment.

To add custom commands for service checks, these can be done on a per-role basis by editing the 'services.cfg.erb' template. This template has some pre-configured checks that use role names used in an example infrastructure. Here's a brief description:

* monitoring - check_smtp (e.g., postfix relayhost) w/ NRPE and tcp port 514 (e.g., rsyslog)
* load_balancer - check_nginx with NRPE.
* appserver - check_unicorn with NRPE, e.g. a Rails application using Unicorn.
* database_master - check_mysql_server with NRPE for a MySQL database master.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Sierles <joshua@37signals.com>
Author:: Nathan Haneysmith <nathan@opscode.com>
Author:: Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>

Copyright 2009, 37signals
Copyright 2009-2010, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
