= DESCRIPTION:

Creates users with authorized_keys.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Data bag named "users" must exist. See USAGE.

= USAGE:

This cookbook is specific for setting up sysadmin group and users for now.

    include_recipe "users::sysadmins"

Use knife to create a data bag for users.

    knife create_data --bag=users

Create a user.

    knife create_item --bag=users --id bofh
    {
      "id": "bofh",
      "ssh_keys": "",
      "groups": "sysadmin",
      "uid": 2001,
      "shell": "\/bin\/bash",
      "comment": "BOFH",
      "nagios": {
        "pager": "8005551212@txt.att.net",
        "email": "bofh@example.com"
      },
      "openid": "bofh.myopenid.com"
    }

Paste the user's public SSH key into the ssh_keys value. Also make sure the uid is unique, and if you're not using bash, that the shell is installed. Group must be sysadmin.

The recipe will also create the sysadmin group. If you're using the opscode sudo cookbook, they'll have sudo access in the default site-cookbooks template. They won't have passwords though, so the sudo cookbook's template needs to be adjusted so the sysadmin group has NOPASSWD.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)

Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
