= DESCRIPTION:

Installs Ruby Enterprise Edition (REE) from Phusion.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Opscode's build-essential cookbook to get a compiler and associated files installed.

= ATTRIBUTES: 

* ruby_enterprise[:install_path] - Location to install REE. Default /opt/ruby-enterprise
* ruby_enterprise[:version] - Version-datestamp to use. Default 1.8.6-20090610. May lag behind latest REE release.
* ruby_enterprise[:url] - URL to download. Default is from RubyForge, with the version specified. Note the download ID must be updated when there are new releases.

= USAGE:

Include the ruby_enterprise recipe to install REE.

    include_recipe "ruby_enterprise"

Or add it to your role, or directly to a node's recipes.

Install RubyGems under REE with the ree_gem definition.

    ree_gem "rails" do
      source "http://gems.rubyforge.org"
      version "2.3.4"
    end

The definition supports parameters for source and version, though they are optional.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Author:: Sean Cribbs (<seancribbs@gmail.com>)
Author:: Michael Hale (<mikehale@gmail.com>)

Copyright:: 2009-2010, Opscode, Inc.
Copyright:: 2009, Sean Cribbs
Copyright:: 2009, Michael Hale

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

