= DESCRIPTION:

Installs and configures Nagios for a server and for clients using Chef 0.8 search capabilities.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Requires Chef 0.8+ for search capability of roles and data bags.

The monitoring server that uses this recipe should have a role named 'monitoring'. A role named after the environment (e.g., "production") and a node attribute app_environment with a value of the same should be created for all nodes. The server uses this to search for only nodes that belong to its same environment.

Because of the heavy use of search, this recipe will not work with Chef Solo, as it cannot do any searches without a server.

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 9.04, Ubuntu 9.10 and Debian 5.

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks:

* apache2

To install perl cpan modules for munin plugins:

* perl

= USAGE:

This document describes how to add custom munin plugins.

The munin cookbook now has a definition that can be used to enable a new plugin for data gathering on a client. If an existing munin plugin is desired, call the definition:

    munin_plugin "nfs_client"

By default the plugin file name is the name parameter here. Specify the plugin parameter to use something else.

    munin_plugin "nfs_client"
      plugin "nfs_client_"
    end

This creates a symlink from the plugins distribution directory, `/usr/share/munin/plugins` to the enabled plugins directory, `/etc/munin/plu
gins`, and once the server poller picks it up will have new graph data for that plugin. See the plugins distribution directory for available
 plugins or add your own.

If a custom plugin is required, add the plugin file to the munin cookbook in `site-cookbooks/munin/files/default/plugins`. Call the definition specifying that the plugin file should be downloaded from the cookbook.

    munin_plugin "nfs_client_custom"
      create_file true
    end

By default in both cases, the plugin is enabled. If a plugin should be disabled, use the `enable` parameter:

    munin_plugin "nfs_client_custom"
      enable false
    end

Some plugins may require other configuration. For example, to use the memcache plugins, you'll need the Cache::Memcache cpan module installed, and use the munin_plugin definition. The perl cookbook from opscode includes a definition to handle this easily.

    cpan_module "Cache::Memcached"

Then for example in your memcache recipe:

    %w(
      memcached_bytes_
      memcached_connections_
      memcached_hits_
      memcached_items_
      memcached_requests_
      memcached_responsetime_
      memcached_traffic_
    ).each do |plugin_name|
      munin_plugin plugin_name do
        plugin "#{plugin_name}#{node[:ipaddress].gsub('.','_')}_#{node[:memcached][:port]}"
        create_file true
      end
    end

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Nathan Haneysmith <nathan@opscode.com>
Author:: Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>

Copyright 2009-2010, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
