= DESCRIPTION:

Sets up user and environment for running solr instances.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform and Application Environment:

Tested on Ubuntu 8.10. May work on other platforms, esp Ubuntu/Debian.

Requires solr installed, such as a vendor plugin for a Rails application. Assumes 'start.jar' exists. Also requires ssh keys for solr user. See usage.

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks, http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master:

* capistrano (capistrano_setup)
* java
* runit (runit_service)

= ATTRIBUTES: 

No specific attributes are used. See Parameters under usage.

= USAGE:

To create a solr instance for an application, use the solr_instance define:

  solr_instance "my_app" 

The recipe assumes that id_rsa ssh key pair has been created for the solr user. The files should be located in the cookbook where the solr_instance is used (for example a site-cookbook)

== Parameters:

The following parameters are prototyped for usage.

* params[:path] - Location where this instance lives. 
* params[:xms] - Initial java heap size.
* params[:xmx] - Maximum java heap size.
* params[:user] - User for the instance process.
* params[:uid] - UID for user.
* params[:group] - Group for the instance process.
* params[:gid] - GID for group.
* params[:type] - master or false. Not currently used.

Optionally specify a cookbook where the ssh keypair is located, otherwise generate keys and put the files in the solr cookbook. Empty files are located there for placeholders.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:
      
Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
