= DESCRIPTION:

Installs Rails and contains Rails tuning parameters.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 8.10, should work on other platforms.

== Cookbooks:

Opscode cookbooks, http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master:

* ruby 
* apache2 
* passenger 

= ATTRIBUTES: 

* rails[:version] - Install the specified version. Default false (installs latest).
* rails[:environment] - Set Rails environment. Default production.

= USAGE:

The recommended Rails application deployment method is Passenger and use the Apache2 cookbook's web_app define.

  include_recipe "apache2"
  include_recipe "passenger"
  include_recipe "rails"

  web_app "some_rails_app" do
    docroot "/srv/some_rails_app/public"
    template "some_rails_app.conf.erb"
  end

We provide an example rails application vhost config file in this cookbook. Remember, for Passenger, DocumentRoot (docroot) needs 'public'. Per the web_app define, other parameters can be passed arbitrarily and used in the template. 

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
