= DESCRIPTION:

Installs and configures dynomite.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform:

Ubuntu, mainly because of dependencies on Ubuntu specific installation methods in dependencies (thrift and boost).

== Cookbooks:

Opscode/cookbooks:

* thrift
** boost
* ruby
* git
* erlang
* runit

= ATTRIBUTES: 

* dynomite[:master] - whether this node is a master cluster node.
* dynomite[:cluster_name] - name of the dynomite cluster.
* dynomite[:data_dir] - location of the data.
* dynomite[:num_nodes] - number of nodes in the cluster.
* dynomite[:node_name] - name of this node.
* dynomite[:ascii_port] - port for ASCII protocol.
* dynomite[:thrift_port] - port for Thrift protocol.
* dynomite[:web_port] - port for web (HTTP).

= USAGE:

Nothing fancy. Include the recipe, or add to a run_list like any other recipe. This cookbook relies on the ruby-dynomite client, which manages dynomite processes. The cookbook will set up dynomite as a runit service.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
Copyright:: 2009, Opscode, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
